---
layout: post
title: "Reading List for Deep NLP"
date: 2017-03-01
---

## Technical Papers
Thanks to [these people](https://github.com/terryum/awesome-deep-learning-papers/graphs/contributors), here is the list of highly cited NLP papers from 2013 to 2016 related to neural network and deep learning methods. The year 2013 was when the feature-based stars were suddently eclipsed by their unstructured competitors. When it comes to an exciting reading experience, I haven't yet seen a paper in our community that I like more than the old favorite,[Elman 1990](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1207/s15516709cog1402_1/abstract). Perhaps because that one was published by a cognitive scientist (?)

* A character-level decoder without explicit segmentation for neural machine translation (2016), J. Chung et al. 
* Exploring the limits of language modeling (2016), R. Jozefowicz et al. 
* Teaching machines to read and comprehend (2015), K. Hermann et al. 
* Effective approaches to attention-based neural machine translation (2015), M. Luong et al. 
* Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate (2014), D. Bahdanau et al. 
* Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks (2014), I. Sutskever et al. 
* Learning phrase representations using RNN encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation (2014), K. Cho et al. 
* A convolutional neural network for modeling sentences (2014), N. Kalchbrenner et al. 
* Convolutional neural networks for sentence classification (2014), Y. Kim 
* Glove: Global vectors for word representation (2014), J. Pennington et al. 
* Distributed representations of sentences and documents (2014), Q. Le and T. Mikolov 
* Distributed representations of words and phrases and their compositionality (2013), T. Mikolov et al. 
* Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space (2013), T. Mikolov et al. 
* Recursive deep models for semantic compositionality over a sentiment treebank (2013), R. Socher et al. 



----------------

## Reviews, Tutorials  and Books

A brief review of some popular concepts and methods can be found in [Adit Deshpanda's article at KDNuggets](http://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/01/deep-learning-review-natural-language-processing.html). Longer than that is [the tutorial by Yoav Goldberg](https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.00726), and [the book by Kyunghyun Cho](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1511.07916.pdf), both well-known scientists in the field.


-------
This list is going to be updated with more reference.







